Python is an object oriented programming language.
This means that any program can be solved in python by created an object model.

• programs are based on class and object are called oops.
  The concept of oops in python focuses on creating reusable code.

• One of the key features of python is object-oriented programming.
  It focuses on objects and combines data functions.
  Python supports both procedure-oriented and object-oriented programming which is one of the key
  python features.


Class:-
   - Class is the way to bind function and its related data.

object:-
   - An object is an instantiation of a class.

class - common
object - real entity


Oops Concepts :-

1. • Encapsulation :- encapsulation means binding the code and the data together.
   • Encapsulation is one of the fundamental concepts in oops.
     It  describes the idea of wrapping data and the method that work on data within one unit.

2. • Abstraction :- abstraction in oops is a process of hiding the real implementation of the method
     by only showing a method signature.
   • Data abstraction is providing only required details and hiding the implementation from the world.

3. • Polymorphism :- polymorphism means the ability to take multiple forms.
     In programming polymorphism  means the same function name being used for different types.

4. Inheritance:- Inheritance is the capability of one class to derive or inherit the properties from
                 another class.
    - it provide reusability of a code

    Type of inheritance:-
   1.single inheritance
   2.multilevel Inheritance
   3.Multiple  Inheritance
   4.Hierarchical Inheritance
   5.Hybrid Inheritance


Polymorphism:

1.Method overloading
2.Method overriding

Method overloading:- is an example of compile time polymorphism
     - method overloading is the class having method that are the same name with different arguments.
     - it is used in a single class.


Method overriding:- is an example of run time polymorphism
      - In method overriding ,inheritance always required as it is done between parent class and child
        class method.
      - it is used in more than one class.

